Move around:
Command arrows		move between open windows within the same program
fn l or r arrow		start or end of line
fn u or d arrow		top or bottom of page
shift l or r arrow	start of next or previous word
cd			change directory
cd dir_name		takes you directly to that specified directory (or cd dir_name/dir_name if nested)
cd ..			up one directory
cd ../..		up another directory (can be used repeatedly)
~ or cd ~		home directory


Search or Display:
echo ""		prints to screen what is in the quotes
wc		word, line character and byte count		
ls		lists all files and directories inside the current working directory
ls -l		lists all contents of a directory in long format
ls -a		-a is an OPTION which modifies the ls command. It lists the hidden files/directories starting with a . (dot)
ls -t		order all files/directories by time last modified
ls -alt		does all 3 above in one
Command +	make the font size bigger
pwd		print working directory: displays the current dir pathway
env		displays the current environment variables
cat file_name	displays 10 lines within a file
man --help	displays help manual for that location
man (commmand)	gives the manual for any command eg man ls will display all ls commands
highlight	use the mouse!
sudo su		switches you to the "Superuser" or "Root" ie the powerful admin
whoami		tells you who is logged in
wc filename	


Add or remove:
mkdir dir_name			adds a new directory with that name and puts inside the current directory
touch file_name.txt		creates an empty new file with that name and puts in the current directory
				can do this straight into a directory: touch dir_name/file_name.txt
rm file_name.txt		PERMANENTLY removes (deletes) a file with that name
rmdir dir_name			PERMANENTLY removes (deletes) a directory with that name
rm -r dir_name			"recursive" PERMANENTLY removes a directory & all child directories
mv source destination 		mv file_name file_name1 to change filename but not move it
				or mv file_name.txt /dir_name to move to new location
				you can move multiple files only where the destination is a directory. 
                                You can't move multiple files into a single file destination.
tab				autocompletes the filename after the first couple of letters typed
up arrow			autofills the last used command (up to 10) at the prompt
cp source destination		copy the contents of a file or directory into another one
				you can copy multiple files only where the destination is a directory. 
				You can't copy multiple files into a single file destination.
				List them and then put a destination directory at the end
cp * destination		* is a wildcard. It selects all files in the working directory and copies them
cp m*.txt destination		copies all files beginning with m of file type .txt		


Notes:
Argument	When a file, directory or program is passed into a command, it is called an argument
Option		Modifies the behaviour of a command (eg ls -l)
Filesystem	organises a computer's files and directories into a tree structure
Root directory	the starting/parent directory containing child directories and files
Bits
Bytes
